---
title: How to deploy TMC Catalog Apps
author: Harold Preyers
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=2444
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
## Prerequisites: {#block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89}

  * vSphere with Tanzu, configured with NSX-T or the NSX ALB
      * HA & DRS
      * Content Library for vSphere with Tanzu added
      * Tag based storage configured and a tag based Storage Profile added
  * a namespace on vSphere with Tanzu
      * authentication configured
      * storage policy added

## TMC

  1. Create Cluster Group
  2. Register Management Cluster &#8211; vSphere with Tanzu
      * Name
      * Cluster Group
  3. Copy registration URL

## vSphere with Tanzu {#block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89}

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Login to the Supervisor Cluster API<br />kubectl vsphere login -u administrator@vsphere.local &#8211;server 192.168.41.1
</p>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Check the context you are connected to<br />kubectl config get-contexts
</p>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Connect the vSphere with Tanzu environment to TMC through tmc-connect<br />Create file tmc-connect.yaml with the following content
</p>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  !!!! supply the namespace from your environment !!!!<br />!!!! supply the URL that was copied at registrationLink !!!!
</p>

<div class="wp-block-urvanov-syntax-highlighter-code-block">
  <pre class="lang:yaml decode:true " title="tmc-connect file contents">apiVersion: installers.tmc.cloud.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: AgentInstall
metadata:
  name: tmc-agent-installer-config
  namespace: svc-tmc-c43
spec:
  operation: INSTALL
  registrationLink: https://your-tmc-console-name.tmc.cloud.vmware.com/installer?id=e547e774220d8969f7a87df667fc0627c1036ce6ed8c573b8255a8c56d6793d9&source=registration&type=tkgs</pre>
</div>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Create the connection between vSphere with Tanzu and TMC
</p>

<pre id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89" class="wp-block-code"><code>kubectl create -f tmc-connect.yaml</code></pre>

## TMC

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  In TMC the should become healthy
</p>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  At this point a cluster can be created on the on-prem environment. Let&#8217;s do that.<br />In Clusters &#8211; CREATE CLUSTER
</p>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Select the Management Cluster created earlier and click CONTINUE TO CREATE CLUSTER<br />Choose Provisioner: In the Provisioner field, select the namespace on vSphere with Tanzu (see prerequisites) and click NEXT<br />Name and assign: Supply the Cluster name and click NEXT<br />Configure: Leave the Kubernetes version, network and storage options default<br />Select control plane:
</p>

  * Select Single node as the control plane
  * Select Instance type: best-effort-small
  * Select the storage class (see prerequisites) and click NEXT

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Edit Node pool:
</p>

  * Select Worker instance type: best-effort-small
  * Leave the rest default

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  This is all the basic stuff to come to the interesting part now. Oh yeah the Tanzu Kubernetes Grid Service does not provide default RoleBinding and ClusterRoleBinding for Tanzu Kubernetes Grid clusters. To enable this we need to apply a Pod Security Policy (PSP) to our TKC.
</p>

<div class="wp-block-urvanov-syntax-highlighter-code-block">
  <pre class="lang:yaml decode:true " title="tkg-psp file contents">apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: psp:privileged
rules:
- apiGroups: ['policy'] 
  resources: ['podsecuritypolicies']
  verbs:     ['use']
  resourceNames
  - vmware-system-privileged
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: all:psp:privileged
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: psp:privileged
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
subjects:
- kind: Group
  name: system:serviceaccounts
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
</pre>
</div>

Apply this to the TKG cluster

<div class="wp-block-urvanov-syntax-highlighter-code-block">
  <pre class="lang:sh decode:true " title="kubectl VMware KB workaround - harbor notary issue ">kubectl apply -f tkg-psp.yaml</pre>
</div>

## Deploying Apps from within TMC, in a VMware supported way, on the on-prem vSphere with Tanzu environment. {#block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89}

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Carvel is VMware supported open-souce project that is being used to facilitate these type of installs.<br />The TKG Extensions are being installed in this way
</p>

## The documentation challenge

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  The challenge here is to find the documentation. If we go to the TMC docs, there is not a lot to see:<br />Tanzu Mission Control &#8211; Install a Package:<br /><a href="https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Mission-Control/services/tanzumc-using/GUID-4B45987F-D5A0-4283-8B4E-139F38DCBFD9.html">https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Mission-Control/services/tanzumc-using/GUID-4B45987F-D5A0-4283-8B4E-139F38DCBFD9.html</a>
</p>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Both the <br />vSphere with Tanzu TKG Extensions: Deploy and Manage the TKG Extension for Harbor Registry<br /><a href="https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/7.0/vmware-vsphere-with-tanzu/GUID-2B3F2498-7BE3-4179-9F92-C83902061D42.html">https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/7.0/vmware-vsphere-with-tanzu/GUID-2B3F2498-7BE3-4179-9F92-C83902061D42.html</a><br />Tanzu Community Edition:<br /><a href="https://tanzucommunityedition.io/docs/latest/package-readme-harbor-2.3.3/">https://tanzucommunityedition.io/docs/latest/package-readme-harbor-2.3.3/</a><br />Tanzu Community Edition &#8211; harbor package &#8211; values file on github.com<br /><a href="https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/community-edition/blob/main/addons/packages/harbor/2.2.3/bundle/config/values.yaml">https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/community-edition/blob/main/addons/packages/harbor/2.2.3/bundle/config/values.yaml</a><br />Tanzu Kubernetes Grid &#8211; Deploy Harbor Registry as a Shared Service<br /><a href="https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Kubernetes-Grid/1.3/vmware-tanzu-kubernetes-grid-13/GUID-extensions-harbor-registry.html">https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Kubernetes-Grid/1.3/vmware-tanzu-kubernetes-grid-13/GUID-extensions-harbor-registry.html</a>
</p>

## The deploy

## cert-manager 

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Go to Catalog<br />Select cert-manager<br />Click INSTALL PACKAGE<br />Go through the Wizard with the default values
</p>

## Contour {#block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89}

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Select Contour<br />Click INSTALL PACKAGE<br />Go through the wizard and add configured values
</p>

This is because

<div class="wp-block-urvanov-syntax-highlighter-code-block">
  <pre class="lang:yaml decode:true " title="envoy deploy parameters">envoy:
  service:
    type: LoadBalancer</pre>
</div>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  By default Contour will create objects based on NodePort. We actually need an external IP to access the Harbor Web UI.
</p>

## Harbor

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Select Harbor<br />Add configured values<br />Click INSTALL PACKAGE<br />
</p>

<div class="wp-block-urvanov-syntax-highlighter-code-block">
  <pre class="lang:yaml decode:true " title="harbor deploy parameters">core:
  replicas: 1
  secret: VMware1!VMware1!
  xsrfKey: VMware1!VMware1!VMware1!VMware1!
database:
  password: VMware1!
harborAdminPassword: VMware1!
jobservice:
  replicas: 1
  secret: VMware1!
port:
  https: 443
pspNames: null
registry:
  replicas: 1
  secret: VMware1!
secretKey: VMware1!VMware1!
trivy:
  enabled: true
  gitHubToken: ""
  replicas: 1
  skipUpdate: true</pre>
</div>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Be carefull:<br />The values that are supplied within the harbor install are somewhat tricky:
</p>

  * xsrfKey: needs to be exactly 32 characters
  * secretKey: needs to be exactly 16 characters

## Some challenges

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Found that deploying Harbor without Notary would actually deploy just fine.<br />This is where the documentation is failing. Deploying those apps does not install within the namespaces specified.<br />TMC will give an error message that the harbor install timed out.<br />I used a combination of kubectl and Octant to do the troublehooting.<br />So when using the default values when installing the harbor package, this will create a namespace harbor-randomized_string, eg harbor-6c201867<br />However not all objects are created within that namespace but some will be created here and others are created for example in the tanzu-system-registry
</p>

<div class="wp-block-urvanov-syntax-highlighter-code-block">
  <pre class="lang:sh decode:true ">kubectl get app harbor -n harbor-6c201867 -o yaml
kubectl get pods -n tanzu-system-registry
kubectl get deployments -n tanzu-system-registry
kubectl logs harbor-notary-signer-6b787b69cf-72wnd -n tanzu-system-registry</pre>
</div>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  where harbor-notary-signer-6b787b69cf-72wnd is the harbor notary signer pod that is<br />found with the command executed earlier, kubectl get pods -n tanzu-system-registry
</p>

<div class="wp-block-urvanov-syntax-highlighter-code-block">
  <pre class="lang:sh decode:true " title="kubectl VMware KB workaround - harbor notary issue ">kubectl -n harbor-6c201867 create secret generic harbor-notary-singer-image-overlay -o yaml --dry-run=client --from-file=overlay-notary-signer-image-fix.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
kubectl -n harbor-6c201867 annotate packageinstalls harbor ext.packaging.carvel.dev/ytt-paths-from-secret-name.0=harbor-notary-singer-image-overlay</pre>
</div>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Notary is failing on me and this is the workaround (based on <a href="https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/85725" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/85725</a>)<br />So th KB is telling that you should execute these commands in the harbor namespace, this somewhat weird to me as those <br />harbor notary pods and objects are created within the tanzu-system-registry namespace. The reason is that the packageinstall is executed within the harbor namespace<br />so we need to make changes to that harbor packageinstal
</p>

Create a file with the following contents

<div class="wp-block-urvanov-syntax-highlighter-code-block">
  <pre class="lang:sh decode:true " title="kubectl VMware KB workaround - harbor notary issue ">#@ load("@ytt:overlay", "overlay")

#@overlay/match by=overlay.and_op(overlay.subset({"kind": "Deployment"}), overlay.subset({"metadata": {"name": "harbor-notary-signer"}}))
---
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        #@overlay/match by="name",expects="0+"
        - name: notary-signer
          image: projects.registry.vmware.com/tkg/harbor/notary-signer-photon@sha256:4dfbf3777c26c615acfb466b98033c0406766692e9c32f3bb08873a0295e24d1</pre>
</div>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Create a DNS entry or a hosts file entry for the external IP<br />!!! kubectl get external IP
</p>

<p id="block-cf5a8736-a187-4ba8-9f4b-edf74d6d6b89">
  Now when we browse to the hostname, by default harbor.yourdomain.com, the harbor login page will appear<br />log on with admin and the password specified in the harbor values, in this example VMware1!
</p>